## Model execution engine

# Loading a System

When you use MX, you always supply it with a System in the form of a populated metamodel database.

`mx -s elevator -t ev_types -c three_bank1 -x lobby_to_three`

The extensions for each of these files is:

elevator.ral (or .txt), ev_types.yaml, three_bank1.sip and lobby_to_three.scn

But you don't need to specify them since MX will check anyway.

### -s or --system

Specifies a serialized tclral text file.  I use a .ral extension, since they aren’t very readable, but these are text files, so you could use a .txt extension if you prefer (or none at all)

Here the elevator.ral file is generated by xuml-populate package available on PyPI. This is the SM metamodel populated with the Elevator Case Study model elements.

### -t or --types

This is a *.yaml file that specifies the TclRAL type to use for each user
type. For example, the user type Bank Name would correspond to the TclRAL string
type. Someday we'll have a more advanced typing system so that we don't need to supply this map file of contrained user types to wildly unconstrained system types.

### -c or --context

Establishes the initial context of the execution environment with a population of initial instances and, for those that have lifecycles, initial states.

This is a *.sip file (scenario initial population) as defined in the sip-parser repository, also available on PyPI.  Though you only need this for standalone validation of your *.sip script.
MX invokes the sip-parser when it loads the file and will throw any errors it finds in the process.

### -x or --scenario

Here is the specific sequence of interactions you want to drive validation or exploration. For example, you might specify that a cabin going up is requested from the lobby floor
in the lower floors bank, it arrives, floor 3 is requested, the doors close, the cabin transits and then arrives at that floor with the doors opening.

This scenario will result in the appropriate events signaled in the loaded system and collect any responses and status updates of interest along the way.

We use the scp-parser (not yet designed) to parse this file.
